>>After reading
"The Last Symbol,"
I was intrigued
with Washington, DC.
It's a city overflowing
with esoteric symbolism.
Zooming in from space as we
can in Google Earth, let me
point out a few landmarks.
Here's the White House, Capitol
building, Washington Monument,
Jefferson Memorial, Lincoln
Memorial, and the Pentagon
just across the Potomac.
Rick Campbell has uncovered
much of the underlying
geometry of the city on his
informative site dcsymbols.com.
Sees the following diagram in
the streets and interconnection
of monuments.
The geometry consists of
a pentagram over a cube,
all contained within
an overarching pyramid.
Each one of these shapes carries
a meaning we'll be exploring.
We'll see later in Egypt
how the pentagram symbolizes
the microcosm,
which is everything
in the universe, human
scale or smaller.
The cube is a recurrent
esoteric symbol for the body
that we'll be running
into all over the world.
I found a pair of 3-4-5
triangles between the cube
and the pyramid.
Turning off the cube layer,
you see the rectangle
surrounding the
White House is also
made up of a pair of
interlocking triangles,
this time with
5-12-13 proportions.
3-4-5 and 5-12-13 are the
first two Pythagorean triplets.
As you'll begin to appreciate,
Pythagorean knowledge
figures prominently in
decoding this mystery.
Where have we seen an
unfinished pyramid before?
On the back of the
dollar bill, of course.
If we eliminate the DC pyramid
with the same all-seeing eye
of Providence, we are directed
to a specific building.
Is this the "eye
of Providence" we
are looking at or its
older incarnation,
as the "eye of Horus?"
Either way, what is behind
the all-seeing eye of the sun?
It's the headquarters of
Scottish Freemasonry, which
goes by many names, including
the Supreme Council,
Mother Council of the World,
and House of the Temple.
This building is loaded
with Egyptian symbolism
with a 13-step unfinished
pyramid on top,
just like on the dollar bill.
And two giant Sphinxes flank
the entrance out front.
The architect John Russell
Pope modeled the 1911 building
after the Mausoleum
of Halicarnassus,
now a part of Turkey.
As one of the seven wonders
of the ancient world,
it served as tomb of King
Mausolus, which is where
we get the word "mausoleum."
The House of the
Temple correspondingly
serves as tomb of Albert Pike,
sovereign grand commander,
Confederate general, and
the most famous Freemason
of his times.
Pike wrote "Morals and Dogma,"
the handbook formerly given
to new members up until
1974, which details
the 33 ranks of Freemasonry.
The House of the Temple is where
the climax in "The Lost Symbol"
takes place.
Campbell shows how
the elevation was
designed to ad quadratum, which
is Latin for "by the square."
Ad quadratum is a
sacred design template
we'll see employed in the
District of Columbia itself
and at Chartres Cathedral.
The sunburst above the entry
is at the center of the square,
and the top corner
marks the symbolic apex
of the unfinished pyramid.
The bottom corner
presumably marks the crypt
where Pike is interred.
Scottish Freemasons are
really into the number 33.
There are 33 columns in
the House of the Temple
that are 33-feet high.
This is the place where a
hardworking initiate can attain
the highest 33rd degree from
the 33 members of the Supreme
Council.
33rd degree Masons are often
found in positions of power.
Many presidents of the United
States were Freemasons.
The Grand Lodge of Pennsylvania
has a permanent exhibit
featuring the
portrait and signature
of each of these
presidents, with a record
of their Masonic careers.
It is difficult to
verify Masonic membership
because some members do
not make their involvement
a matter of public record.
However, each lodge
keeps its own records.
I find it interesting that
George Washington, Harding,
Eisenhower, Carter,
and the younger Bush
all chose to be sworn into
the office of the president
with a hand on this Masonic
Bible dating from 1770.
One has to be male and
believe in a supreme being
to seek membership as
a Scottish Freemason.
They insist their fraternity
is not a religion,
although atheists are
ineligible for membership.
Freemasonry is not
a secret society,
but members are
strongly admonished,
under pain of death, not
to reveal core secrets.
Much of what happens inside
the House of the Temple
has been pieced together
by outside researchers
in recent years.
And this has been
brought forward
in Dan Brown's book
"The Lost Symbol."
Members can rise
to the 32nd degree
through hard work and study.
But only those selected
by the Supreme Council
may attain the
highest 33rd degree.
Richard Hoagland and
Mike Bara have dredged up
the most interesting connections
between the Scottish Freemasons
and NASA.
Here is Cape Canaveral
at Kennedy Space Center.
These are the two
launch pads where
all the "Apollo" and space
shuttle missions left Earth.
Here is the single
runway, runway 33.
Of all the vectors they could
have chosen for the strip,
why did NASA's choose 33
degrees west of north?
If that seems like
circumstantial evidence to you,
how about this.
Here is astronaut Buzz
Aldrin, 33rd degree Mason,
on the moon holding the
flag of the Supreme Council,
which he later
brought back to Earth
and gave to the
Supreme Commander
of the House of the Temple.
These examples show that
the Freemasons and NASA
are obsessed with this number.
I'm wondering what's
so special about 33?
Where else does
this number appear?
Jesus is said to have
performed 33 miracles
and to have died at age 33.
Perhaps this is no coincidence.
That Bible says King David,
father of the famous Solomon,
who built the first
temple in Jerusalem,
reigned for 33 years.
In the Kabbalah, or
Jewish mysticism,
there are 10 sephiroth
in the Tree of Life
plus another hidden
one called daath.
Adding the 22 paths
between sephiroth
brings the total
up to the magic 33.
My theory involves the
Schumann resonance.
This is the frequency at
which the Earth vibrates.
Scientists have measured the
standing wave at 7.83 Hertz,
with a wavelength equal to the
circumference of the Earth.
This inaudible low hum is
due to lightning discharges
in our conductive ionosphere,
causing the planet
to actually ring like a bell.
If you do the simple
calculation, which
I have done here
in a spreadsheet,
you'll see that middle C is
33 harmonics, or 32 overtones,
above the Schumann resonance.
Sound implausible?
Think of it this way.
Our bodies resonate 33
octaves above the earth's
fundamental vibration.
This fits with the ancient
Hermetic motto, "as above,
so below."
I find it incredible that the
UN emblem divides the Earth
into 33 sectors.
This has to be more
than coincidental.
The human spinal column
appropriately has 33 vertebrae,
if you count the fused bones in
the lower spine individually.
33 might very well be
built into the architecture
of the universe.
For further confirmation,
let's take a look
at the Great Seal of the
United States of America,
as shown on the
back of a $1 bill.
Let's start with the obverse
side of the Great Seal.
That's the side with the eagle.
Most important to our current
line of inquiry, let's
count the number of
feathers on the wings.
The left wing has 33 feathers,
and the right wing has 32.
Could these refer
to the 33 harmonics
or 32 overtones just discussed
in relation to the Schumann
resonance?
I think Rick Campbell
has correctly decoded
the controlling geometry.
Three circles with their centers
on each other's circumference
form a kind of double
vesica piscis, if you will.
A vesica piscis
is formed whenever
two equally sized
circles come together,
such that their centers are on
each other's circumferences.
A Star of David emerges from
the three circles' intersection
points.
Examining the reverse
of the Great Seal,
we find the same
controlling geometry.
Look at the letters picked out
of the motto's "annuit coeptis"
and "novus ordo seclorum."
Never mind right now what
these mottoes signify.
The letters at the points
of the Star of David
are A, S, N, O, and M.
Rearranging, we get Mason.
So to summarize, we've seen
how the House of the Temple
presides over a street
pyramid in Washington, DC.
There is a clear
Masonic connection
to the office of the president,
NASA, and the United Nations.
The Scottish
Freemasons are obsessed
with the number
33, which is echoed
in the Judeo-Christian
tradition,
having a resonance both with
the human body and the Earth.
It's no secret that Masons
trace their history back
through the Knights Templar.
I was amazed to discover there
is an urban village straight
across the Potomac from the
White House called Rosslyn.
Many researchers believe
one of the Templar factions
fled to Scotland after
the infamous raid that
destroyed their order.
Rosslyn Chapel in
Scotland was the place
featured in "The Da Vinci
Code," where Sophie learned
she was a direct
descendant of Jesus
and where she was reunited
with her bloodline.
Friday the 13th, October
1307 was the date
most of the Templars
got arrested, had
their considerable assets
seized, were interrogated,
and tortured to death by
agents of the French king,
acting in cooperation
with the pope.
Knowing the connections
between the Templars,
Rosslyn Chapel in Scotland,
and the Scottish Freemasons
made me take a closer
look at Rosslyn, Virginia.
Rosslyn has two
important features--
a dense urban village and the
Marine Corps War Memorial.
So I drew a line from the
center of the Marine Corps
Memorial in Rosslyn,
Virginia to the center
of Rosslyn Chapel in Scotland.
You've got to love Google Earth.
The great circle
path passes precisely
over the apex of "eye of
Providence" and the entire DC
street pyramid,
arguably confirming
my line of reasoning.
Before we leave
Scotland entirely,
let's take a detour
to Edinburgh.
The Royal Mile is Edinburgh's
oldest and busiest tourist
street.
If we measure a line from
the facade of Holyrood Abbey,
built in 1128 by King
David, I of Scotland
to the circular tower
in Edinburgh Castle,
built by the same king,
we find that it measures
almost precisely 8/7 of a mile.
The Royal Mile,
referred to in Edinburgh
is therefore the Egyptian
royal mile by definition.
This is a memorable
and important unit
because, as Richard Heath shows
in his book "Sacred Number
and the Origins
of Civilization,"
there are exactly 3,456 Egyptian
royal miles in the polar radius
of the Earth.
King David built
these structures
right at the beginning of the
Knights Templars' existence,
shortly after the Knights
returned from Jerusalem
and the Gothic building
explosion began.
Could King David,
I of Scotland have
been connected to the knowledge
the Templars unearthed
from the House of
David in Jerusalem?
Let's return to Washington DC
and see how the royal mile is
encoded there in plain sight.
Zooming into the area in
front of the Capitol building,
many researchers have
identified Masonic compasses
built into the street plan.
The compasses that run along
Pennsylvania and Maryland
avenues point to the White House
and the Jefferson Memorial.
The spread of the compasses
is one royal mile.
I might chalk this
up to coincidence
if it wasn't for the diagram
Richard Heath has published
in "Sacred Number."
Heath's diagram is drawn as a
grid of equilateral triangles,
so every edge measures
one royal mile.
The Jefferson Memorial, White
House, and House of the Temple
are centrally located
on these nodes.
The point of the Pentagon
facing the White House
is that this node.
This is simply too
much coincidence
to have not been the product
of intentional design.
I find the ancient
Flower of Life diagram
fits perfectly into this grid.
The Flower of Life has been
found all over the world.
Wikipedia lists the Flower of
Life in 15 countries so far.
Here's the Flower of
Life at the Osirion
Temple in Abydos,
Egypt, which is
a minimum of 3,300 years old.
It's a little known fact
that Leonardo da Vinci even
studied the Flower of Life.
This is the second depiction
of a cube we've seen in DC.
Metrology, the science
of measurement,
is one of the keys
to deciphering
sacred architecture.
Each side of the larger
cube spans two triangles,
forming an edge length
equal to two royal miles.
The polar radius of the Earth
is 1,728 times 2 royal miles.
This equals the 3,456
royal miles referenced
by the Edinburgh Royal Mile.
The number 1,728 links DC with
the mythical "New Jerusalem"
described in the Bible.
"And the city lieth
foursquare, and the length
is as large as the breadth.
And he measured the city with
the reed, 12,000 furlongs.
The length and the breadth and
the height of it are equal."
The dimensions of New
Jerusalem describe
a cube whose volume is
1,728 billion furlongs.
Did you ever wonder
why the US and Israel
have such a strong bond?
DC is the New Jerusalem.
Here's the 1992 Israeli Supreme
Court building in Jerusalem.
Does this pyramid
on top containing
a window look familiar?
It appears to be the
"eye of Providence,"
the same symbol found
in the streets of DC
and on the dollar bill.
Many researchers have
seen the Tree of Life
from Jewish mysticism encoded
in DC's traffic circles
and monuments.
However, dcsymbols.com
is the only place
that shows how the streets
and traffic circles match
this early depiction of the
Portae Lucis Tree of Life
from 1516.
The portal of light version
is shaped like an actual tree.
Maybe that's where the
Tree of Life got its name.
Scott Circle's gently
curving streets
mimic the shape of
the Pythagorean Y.
In "The Secret Architecture
of our Nation's Capital,"
author David Ovason
says, "the Pythagorean Y
is a vestigial drawing of a
path through life, in which one
is perpetually presented with a
choice of symbolic directions.
Should one do good or bad?"
Scott Circle is in the position
in the Tree of Life known
as daath the hidden sephiroth.
According to the Kabbalah,
the reason daath is depicted
as hidden is because humans who
remain selfish cannot see it.
Only those who orient themselves
in the service of others
are able to see the light
of daath, in which all 10
sephiroth are united as one.
I think Scott Circle exemplifies
the sacred architecture of DC.
it's plain to see once
you have the knowledge,
but remains hidden to
the general public.
Most people who know
the Tree of Life
are more familiar with the
Athanasius Kircher 1652, which
is arranged in three columns.
The Kircher version is seen
here in John Evelyn's plan
to rebuild London after
the Great Fire of 1666.
Both he and Christopher
Wren submitted plans based
on the Tree of Life, although
Wren's wasn't as in-your-face
as Evelyn's.
Neither were
actually carried out.
But it shows you this
kind of esoteric symbolism
wasn't anything new when
DC was laid out a century
after the Great Fire of London.
As you've seen, there is a
deep connection to Judaism,
both in the Tree of Life
and in the metrology
of Richard Heath's
larger cube that
links Washington, DC
with the mythical New
Jerusalem in the Bible.
To understand why both the
Flower of Life and Tree of Life
are in DC, you need a
one-minute visual education
in sacred geometry.
The Flower of Life grows
on the Tree of Life.
Flower-of-Life geometry
is based on the 2D reality
that six circles fit perfectly
around a central seventh, shown
here with quarters.
Flowers eventually bear fruit,
and with a growth of circles,
we have the traditional
Fruit-of-Life diagram
containing 13 circles.
Connecting the dots
reveals Metatron's cube,
an important diagram in the
study of sacred geometry.
It was named after
the biblical figure
Enoch, who was transformed
into the Archangel Metatron.
Metatron's cube contains
the five Platonic solids,
both in smaller and larger
scales, like a fractal.
Platonic solids
figure prominently
in Plato's philosophy,
after whom they were named.
The dots in the
interstices encode
the pattern of two intersecting
Pythagorean tetractys.
This is the pattern
on the dollar
bill in what is called "glory"
above the eagle's head.
Pythagorean swore an
oath to tetractys,
which was the most important
symbol in their secret worship
of number.
All of this symbolism is
interconnected in a system.
Masons study for years to
understand these things
and advance through
their degrees.
Freemasonry is a remnant of
an ancient mystery school.
Look at how many lucky 13s are
on the obverse of the Great
Seal.
We've already seen the 13 stars
of glory over the eagle's head.
In the eagle's claws
there are 13 arrows.
13 leaves on the
branches hold 13 olives.
And there are 13
stripes on shield.
Perhaps having 13
colonies was no accident.
Curiously, the eagle only
has nine tail feathers.
Everything has a
meaning in symbolism.
The 13th degree of
Scottish freemasonry
is called the Royal
Arch of Solomon.
It's about Enoch, descent
into a vault, the arch,
a triangle of gold, a cube of
agate, and the name of God.
Enoch supposedly
excavated nine chambers--
think of the tail feathers--
underneath the Temple Mount
in Jerusalem, one
below the other,
each with a supporting arch.
In the final chamber he
placed a cube of agate inset
with a triangle of gold engraved
with the holy name of God.
By this sacred
geometry, Rick Campbell
has shown Enoch's cube is,
in fact, Metatron's cube,
the triangle within the cube.
The name of God,
shown in Hebrew,
is called the
tetragrammaton, the most
sacred four-letter
word in Judaism.
The letters of
the tetragrammaton
are traditionally shown in
the Pythagorean tetractys
because it encodes the
Shemhamphorasch, or names
of God, which in Jewish
mystical tradition corresponds
to 72 arrangements of
the four holy letters.
The practice of assigning
numbers to letters
is called gematria.
Here we see how the
letters in Enoch's triangle
in code the number 72, the
number of names of God.
When you get deep enough
into most religions,
you eventually
encounter a belief
in the sacredness of number.
Enoch was supposedly transformed
into the Archangel Metatron
when he was 365
years old, his age
being an obvious
solar reference.
Speaking of solar men being
elevated to the divine,
let's look at the
Capitol Building Rotunda.
This center point of
American democracy
figured prominently in Dan
Brown's "The Lost Symbol."
Investigative
mythologist William Henry
has interpreted the significance
of the Capitol building
as the solemn temple at
the heart of America.
Looking up through the
oculus and the Capitol Dome,
we see Constantino
Brumidi's huge fresco
entitled "Apotheosis
of George Washington."
The word "apotheosis" means
elevation of a man into god.
George Washington is
sitting on a rainbow
up in the clouds,
surrounded by 13 maidens
and flanked by the goddesses
Liberty and Victory.
Henry has dug up
what was probably
Brumidi's inspiration
for depicting
Washington riding on a rainbow
in front of a stargate.
Here is Jesus doing the same.
Both are man-become-god.
The fresco at the
heart of America
clearly elevates Washington
into some kind of solar deity.
Six allegorical groupings
in a hexagonal arrangement
tell stories centered
on the ancient gods
Mercury, Vulcan, Ceres,
Minerva, Neptune, and Columbia.
What does all this
pagan symbolism
have to do with the official
history of the United States?
Nothing.
There are 72 stars
surrounding the fresco,
recalling the names of God
in Jewish mystical tradition.
An astronomical take
on this number of stars
is the fact that it takes
72 years for the Earth
to precess one degree.
We'll be learning more about
the precessional cycle in Rome.
Looking deeper, there are
several crypto references
to the Egyptian goddess
Isis, particularly
in the "Allegory
of Agriculture."
Flora, with exposed breast, and
young America, in liberty cap,
stand in front of Ceres,
Goddess of Agriculture.
A sheaf of wheat is often
used to depict the Goddess
of Nature, shown here as Virgo.
An exposed breast
and the liberty cap
are well-known attributes
of Isis, used extensively
during the French Revolution.
Here the symbols
are shown together
in Delacroix's "Liberty
Guiding the People."
The goddesses personified on
both sides of the Atlantic
as Nature, Reason,
liberty, Freedom,
and Colombia are all
esoteric references
to the Egyptian goddess Isis.
Here's a silver
dollar showing Liberty
with a liberty cap on a pole.
This particular coin happens to
be worth well over six figures
today.
The seal of the US Senate
shows the now-familiar red cap
as well.
To top it off, the
Goddess Freedom
on the outside of
the Capitol Dome,
and recently in the middle of
the Capitol Visitors Center,
are yet more depictions
of you know who.
The architects of the
Capitol are clearly
obsessed with the
secret worship of Isis.
Following the Goddess
Liberty upward,
we see how the entire
District of Columbia
was originally surveyed by
George Washington in 1791.
The mile markers are
placed ad quadratum, just
like the elevation of
the House of the Temple,
built more than a century later.
This later organic interruption
in the lower portion
of the square became
Alexandria, Virginia.
In the ancient world, Isis
had an important temple
on the Island of Pharos just
outside Alexandria, Egypt.
Pharos was the location of
the Lighthouse of Alexandria,
wonder of the ancient world.
The light that shown from
it was the "Stella Maris,"
star of the sea, one of
the many epithets for Isis.
The highest point in
Alexandria, Virginia
has a replica of the
ancient lighthouse
in the form of the George
Washington Masonic National
Memorial.
George Washington, and many
of the founding fathers,
were, of course,
well-known Freemasons.
Pay special attention to
the three cubes forming
the body of the lighthouse.
We'll see this symbolism
again in London
and finally decode it in Paris.
How is it that we keep finding
secret connections to Isis
in ancient Egypt in a country
that has no ostensible reason
to make this symbolic linkage?
Believe it or not,
Pennsylvania Avenue
is astronomically oriented to
the heliacal rising of Sirius.
The ancient Egyptians
based their calendar
on this phenomenon,
which is the day when
Isis's star, Sirius, is
visible on the horizon
just before sunrise.
From the White House
in early August,
Sirius is visible a few
minutes before sunrise directly
behind the Capitol building.
From the perspective of
the Capitol building,
sunset on this same
day passes straight
down Pennsylvania
Avenue and sets over
the apex of the pyramid atop
the National Post Office.
If you overlay a pair of
pentagrams over the Capitol
building, a couple of
interesting things occur.
These edges follow Pennsylvania
and Maryland avenues,
and RFK Stadium from
961 is framed perfectly
in the crook of the
opposing pentagram.
I noticed four radiating streets
above and below the Capitol
building.
Then it clicked
with the pentagrams,
and I see what is
actually depicted here
is the Templar cross.
Can there now be any doubt
who is behind the program
of symbolism in DC?
The Templars may be long gone,
but the Scottish Freemasons
remain active today.
We'll learn more about the
Templars at Chartres Cathedral
and again in London.
David Ovason's
groundbreaking book
"The Secret Architecture
of Our Nation's Capital"
reveals that DC has more zodiacs
than any city in the world,
concentrated in what is
called the Federal Triangle.
The Federal Triangle contains
many important governmental
structures, including
the National Archives,
the National Post Office,
the Departments of Justice
and Commerce, and so on.
Most importantly, Ovason shows
how these Federal Triangle
zodiacs draw attention to one
constellation in particular,
Virgo.
Virgo the Virgin is an esoteric
representation of Isis.
Ovason's research
into Masonic symbolism
led him to map the stars
Arcturus, Regulus, and Spica
to a terrestrial triangle
connecting the White
House, Capitol
building, and the point
where many think the Washington
Monument was supposed to be.
You see, the Washington
Monument is shifted slightly
to the east with respect to
the White House, Jefferson
Memorial, north-south axis.
Some claim this shift
was due to the fact
that the marked
point is on landfill,
and the site where the
monument was actually built
is on solid ground.
In any case, here is that
particular stellar arrangement
brought down to earth.
We see Virgo over
the Federal Triangle
and Leo over the
Capitol building.
18th century Masonic French
astronomer Jerome Lalande
wrote, "the Virgin is
consecrated to Isis,
just as Leo is consecrated
to her husband, Osiris."
So Isis is linked with the
Federal Triangle and Osiris
with the Capitol building.
The Virgin's right hand
points to the White House,
but her left hand is actually
on the Washington Monument.
This is very interesting to
those who know the Isis story.
Could Isis be holding Osiris's
golden phallus in the form
of the Washington Monument?
As the ancient
Egyptian story goes,
it all started when Set
became jealous of his brother
Osiris, who was
King of all Egypt,
and his girlfriend was
the beautiful Isis.
Set then deceived
and killed Osiris,
cut his body into 14 parts,
sealed all but one of them
in a coffin, and sent
it down the Nile.
As a final insult, he
Osiris's penis into the river.
His sister consort
Isis was at length
able to recover and magically
reconnect all of Osiris's parts
except for his penis, which was
unfortunately eaten by a fish.
Isis fashioned a golden
phallus, attached it to Osiris,
and brought him back
to life with a song.
From this experience,
the resurrected Osiris
became Lord of the Dead.
Isis was impregnated
with the golden phallus,
and their son Horus grew
to become God of the Sun.
It's the original story of sex
and violence, jealousy, incest,
and pregnancy.
The Washington Monument is
an obvious phallic symbol.
The vesica piscis paths
surrounding the obelisk
suggest female genitals.
Taken together, the
symbols represent
the joining of Osiris and
Isis and the conception
of the Sun God Horus.
Now, maybe you think I'm
going too far at this point.
But take a look at what is
above the elevator that goes up
the shaft of the Washington
Monument, the same ride
Robert Langdon took at the
end of "The Lost Symbol."
Right above the
elevator doors there
is a bronze sculpture of
George Washington, sculpted
by French Freemason
Houdon, and above that
is the winged disk of Horus.
What in the world does
this Egyptian solar symbol
have to do with America?
It's a clue to the secret
meaning of the obelisk
in the most public of places.
But how many actually
see it and understand?
The dimensions of the monument
are all sixes and fives.
What an amazing coincidence that
6,660 inches equals 555 feet.
We'll decipher the meaning
of sixes and thighs in Egypt.
The Washington Monument
is not a true obelisk cut
from a single piece of stone.
Instead it is both
literally and figuratively
a monumental work of masonry.
Bernard I. Pietsch's
meticulous metrological study
of the Washington Monument
reveals a sacred diagram
projected on the earth.
Based on the exact height
and angle of the pyramidion,
its face and ridge lines
project down to the ground
and trace circles that are
proportioned ad quadratum
with respect to each other.
The diagram shown here is
called the octagram star
in mathematics.
It's a symbol used in many
religions and cultures
around the world.
I'll briefly trace the
octagram star through history
to uncover its meaning.
The earliest example I've
found that has this symmetry
is the Star of Inanna,
the Sumerian goddess whom
I think all the Isis obsession
is ultimately based on.
Archeologists identify
the Sumerian culture
as the oldest
civilization on Earth.
Sumeria predated ancient Egypt,
but it wasn't even discovered
until 1890, so that must be why
most esoteric references are
to Isis rather than Inanna.
I highly recommend reading
the collected works
of Zecharia Sitchin
for an alternative,
albeit controversial, theory
on the origins of civilization.
But that's another
documentary entirely.
I have found the octagram
star in many other places
around the world.
The Hindu star of Lakshmi
is a pure octagram star.
The Egyptian Ogdoad add adds a
central cosmic egg to the mix,
containing the Sun God Ra.
The structure of
the Celtic calendar
resonates with
the octagram star.
The Gnostic
theologian Valentinus
transformed Egyptian
concepts into Christian ones
in his second century cosmology
featuring the Pleroma,
or godhead, in the center.
The Buddhist wheel of Dharma
has this as its symbol,
incorporating the
eightfold path.
Islam uses the Rub el
Hizb his as its symbol.
Found in the oldest Qurans
as a chapter marker,
here it is expressed fractally
in Muhammad's Tomb in Medina.
The Eastern Orthodox Church
used octagram star symmetry
in numerous depictions
of Christ Pantocrater
and in the Transfiguration.
Even the seemingly
unrelated Aztec culture
produced their calendrical
Piedra Del Sol, having
this remarkable symmetry.
Finally, the Vatican also
encoded this powerful symbol
in St. Peter's Square.
The ancient Egyptian
obelisk at its center
is literally a gigantic sundial
with stones in the pavement
marking the seasons.
So the octagram
star is resoundingly
a solar symbol, appropriately
fitting the male obelisk,
which is the primary reading
of the Washington Monument.
However, female energy
is not entirely neglected
in the Washington Monument.
We've already seen how
a stretch vesica piscis
symbol surrounds the obelisk.
Rick Campbell has
brought something
even more hidden to light.
If you draw a vesica piscis
to scale with the circles'
diameters equal to the height
of the Washington Monument's 555
feet, the Great Pyramid
of Egypt fits perfectly
inside the vulva.
This is no accident.
That architect who designed
the Washington Monument
must have wanted to secretly
link it with the Great Pyramid.
The Great Pyramid and
the Washington Monument
both have phi in
their proportions,
which is one of the
most interesting numbers
in mathematics.
The last thing I noticed
in Washington, DC
propelled me on a virtual
journey around the world.
Remember the pair of
interlocking triangles
surrounding the White House?
It struck me that the
horseshoe-shaped lawn
in the White House
backyard looked a lot
like the bluestone
ring at Stonehenge.
That got me thinking how
these two triangles together
form of by 5-by-12
rectangle that
has the same proportions
as the station
rectangle at Stonehenge.
Following this
hunch, I drew a line
from the tip of the
Federal Triangle
to the center of Stonehenge.
Later on, I happened to
zoom into New York City
when this layer was on and saw
that the alignment perfectly
bisects Central Park.
That's probably not an
accident, so here we go.
The angle that this large-scale
alignment takes through Central
Park matches the interlocking
Pythagorean triangle's
hypotenuses.
Four such triangles match
Central Park's proportions
of 5-to-24 precisely.
I then wondered, what is this
unusual aqueduct doing just
under the surface of Jacqueline
Kennedy Onassis Reservoir?
It seems to mirror the
triangle's hypotenuse angle.
That's certainly odd.
But in my research,
I've learned to follow
so-called "coincidences"
wherever they lead.
The aqueduct leads us to the
Metropolitan Museum of Art.
Getting closer still,
we see this variation
of the Templar flag in the
atrium of the Robert Lehman
Collection.
Incidentally, Albrecht
Durer's esoteric masterpiece
"Melancholia I" is
in this collection,
and we'll study it in Egypt.
In case you're thinking I'm
imagining connections where
none exist, right outside
this room is one of the oldest
artifacts in North America, a
3,500-year-old Egyptian obelisk
from Heliopolis.
Note the octagonal surrounding
yet another solar symbol.
There are only a handful of
ancient Egyptian obelisks
left in the world, even
counting those still in Egypt.
So when I see one, I
sit up and take notice.
This is the twin of
Cleopatra's Needle in London.
Egyptian temples typically
had paired obelisks
at their entrances.
So the obelisks now
in New York and London
used to together
frame the entrance
to a temple in Heliopolis.
It was quite a difficult
and expensive project
in the 19th century,
and even today,
to transport a 224-ton
slab of granite
halfway across the planet.
Connecting nations
with ancient Egypt
was apparently a very powerful
motivator to the Freemasons
who bothered moving
these obelisks.
Overlaying the
floor plan, we see
what the aqueduct is
pointing to-- literally
an ancient Egyptian
temple within the Sackler
wing of the Met.
The Temple of Dendur had to be
removed from its original site
in order to save it from being
submerged by the construction
of the Aswan High Dam.
In 1965, the government of Egypt
presented the temple as a gift
to the United States, which
was ceremonially represented
by Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis.
That's quite a coincidence,
considering the aqueduct
and Jackie's reservoir led us
to the very temple she received.
Was the former first lady
playing the role of Isis?
While we're in New
York, let's take a look
at one of the most
famous tourist spots
and greatest symbols
of America and visit
the Statue of Liberty.
The authors Graham
Hancock and Robert Bauval
have researched the
Statue of Liberty,
and you might be surprised
what they have found.
French sculptor and
well-known Freemason Bartholdi
designed the colossal statue
originally for the opening
of the Suez Canal in 1867.
Fellow Freemason Gustav Eiffel,
who was later made famous
for his Parisian
tower, was commissioned
as the statue's engineer.
It is said Bartholdi modeled
the sculpture after the Roman
Goddess Libertas.
The truth is, Libertas was an
echo of the Egyptian goddess
Isis.
After Bartholdi's
colossus was rejected
for the Suez Canal due
to financial reasons,
he repurposed it as the Statue
of Liberty for New York Harbor.
It comes as no surprise
that the cornerstone
for the Statue of Liberty was
laid in a Masonic ceremony.
Researcher Jim Allison
has connected to the dots
and identified the triangle
between Giza, Pharos,
and the opening
of the Suez Canal.
The angle of this
triangle matches the slope
of the Great Pyramid and
looks like the Greek letter
delta, which beautifully
echoes the Nile delta.
The Colossus of Rhodes
was one of the seven
wonders of the ancient world.
The giant statue that stood
on the Island of Rhodes
depicted Apollo, God
of the Sun, who also
wore a crown of seven rays.
Seven rays is very
interesting in light
of the culmination of
the initiation ceremony
into the cult of Isis.
According to 19th century
author Edouard Schure,
after a successful
initiate survived
all the harrowing tests and
triumphed over death by fire,
water, and temptation
of the senses,
he was led into an
inner sanctum, where
he looked upon a colossal
metal statue of Isis, crowned
with a diadem of seven rays.
I believe seven is
Isis's secret number.
Isis's son Horus
was God of the Sun,
just as Apollo depicted
in the Colossus of Rhodes
was God of the
Sun to the Greeks.
You'll see that the Statue
of Liberty's base star
is quite odd, having 11 points.
I think this was done
to make the number
symbolism in the
Statue of Liberty
fit an important Egyptian
structure, the Great Pyramid
of Giza, whose height-to-base
proportion is 7-to-11,
like the famous
convenience store's name.
And if you didn't get
11 from the base star,
the height of the statue
from heel to top of head
is 111 feet, 1 inch.
So it all fits now.
You see how the
Statue of Liberty
secretly depicts the
Egyptian Goddess Isis.
Extending the line of
the submerged structure
in the reservoir that lead
us to the Temple of Isis
all the way to
the East River, we
are directed to the United
Nations headquarters
in midtown Manhattan.
The iconic Secretariat's
Building proportions
are based on phi.
As you know, this proportion
links the structure
with the Washington Monument
and the Great Pyramid.
Did you know the
69,000-square-meter site of UN
headquarters is considered
international territory and is
technically not a
part of New York City?
The UN headquarters has
its own security force,
fire department, and
postal administration that
even issues its own stamps.
The notion of UN headquarters
being a city within a city
reminds me of how the Vatican
is also a city within Rome.
I like to refer to
this as a nested city
or fractal structure.
I was fascinated to discover
that the Italian government
donated an Arnaldo Pomodoro
sphere-within-sphere sculpture
to the UN in 1991.
The golden ball beautifully
represents the concept
of a city within a city.
The internal
structures seem to me
like buildings and streets
on the inner surfaces
of the spheres.
I'm intrigued because I've seen
three other similar sculptures
in locations significant
to my research.
Pomodoro made a series of
six spheres-within-spheres
scattered around the world.
Significant
sphere-within-sphere locations
are the Hirshhorn Museum
and Sculpture Garden
in DC, very close to the
Capitol building; the De Young
Museum in San Francisco; and
in the Vatican's courtyard
of the Belvedere.
We'll be visiting the latter
two locations in due course.
The Security Council Chamber
is the emergency room
of the UN, where
decisions involving
economic sanctions and military
action are sometimes made.
Notice the
horseshoe-shaped desk,
surrounding 13 chairs located
at a rectangular table
in the center.
The red chairs flanking
the central group
are arranged in rows of 13.
All these lucky 13s are
reminiscent of the many 13s
on the Great Seal of
the United States.
The mural in the
Security Council Chamber
is by Norwegian
artists Per Krogh,
and it contains some highly
interesting symbolism.
The left-arched panel shows
a woman opening a window,
letting in rays of
golden sunlight.
The right-arched panel shows a
man letting a white horse run
before the full moon.
Sun and moon are symbolized
in Masonic lodges
by the columns of
Boaz on the left
and to Jachin on the right.
Boaz and Jachin originally
stood in Solomon's Temple
in Jerusalem.
Boaz symbolizes the sun
and Jachin the moon.
We'll see the symbolism again
in the Towers of Sun and Moon
at Chartres Cathedral.
The vesica piscis shape
in the center of the mural
contains the story
of Original Sin.
Young Adam and Eve
stand in the background.
Lucifer, hanging from serpentine
vines in the Tree of Knowledge,
hands Eve the infamous apple.
Years pass, and Adam
and Eve are shown
with arms interlocked, closer
to the center of the vesica
piscis.
In time, they're
first born, Cain,
is shown in the foreground
at his parents' feet.
This unmistakable
imagery is strange,
to say the least, in
a chamber representing
all the nations of the world.
The mural symbolizing the
security of all nations
should probably embrace
all cultures and religions,
but it clearly has a distinctly
Judeo-Christian subtext.
You have to look
closely to perceive it,
but there is a faint
circle representing the sun
surrounding the vesica piscis.
Tiny flames can
be seen emanating
from the circle, which
carry through four
of the mural's panels.
Here the sun, or son, emerges
from the center of the vesica
piscis, or womb.
The bird below the vesica
piscis is a Phoenix,
standing over the
ashes of its parent.
The phoenix is a symbol
of transformation
and of the cyclical
nature of time.
Herodotus recorded the fact
that this mysterious bird has
ancient Egyptian provenance.
"There is a sacred bird
called the phoenix.
I have never seen it
myself except in pictures,
for it is extremely
rare, only appearing,
according to the
people of Heliopolis,
once in 500 years,
when it is seen
after the death of its parent."
The beast of war is shown slain
in an underground crypt, run
through with a sword.
The abandoned
artillery, machine gun,
and soldier laying
down his rifle
show this is the end of
the Second World War.
The UN was chartered at the
end of this conflict in 1945,
and therefore the war imagery
is entirely appropriate.
Souls, or shades, in
between life and death,
literally in monochrome,
are being helped up
from below on both
sides of the mural.
Shades on the solar left
side are tinted gold,
and shades on the
lunar right side
are appropriately tinted silver.
The original motto of the French
Revolution "liberte, egalite,
fraternite, ou la
mort,--" "liberty,
equality, brotherhood,
or death--"
surprisingly maps to much
of the remaining symbolism.
Souls being lifted with
ropes up into the light
are gaining their liberty.
The scene in the upper
left shows a group
of people weighing grain,
presumably to distribute it
with equality.
The party in the two panels
surrounding the vesica piscis
illustrates brotherhood,
with all types
of people and children
happily united,
holding cyan ribbons
and UN flags.
Those souls who
died in the war are
lining up and entering
the starry door of death
behind the phoenix.
"La mort" was later dropped
from the revolutionary motto
because it reminded people too
much of the Reign of Terror.
The tricolor flag of
the French Republic
symbolizes the three-term motto,
"liberte, egalite, fraternite."
The scene in the upper right
shows scientists investigating
the macrocosm and microcosm
with telescope and microscope.
The two upper panels
hold a political message,
with the depiction of people
painting, planting, designing,
playing music, singing,
writing, and dancing.
I think the
implication is humanity
may enjoy these higher
pleasures after a war has been
transformed, like a
phoenix, into peace
through the agency of
the United Nations.
The symbolism in
the mural contains
Judeo-Christian, Masonic,
French revolutionary,
and ancient Egyptian imagery
that became apparent only
under careful analysis.
The mural is more than a
small decorative element.
It dominates the
Security Council Chamber.
Therefore, I think the choice of
symbolism embedded in the mural
tells us something about the
character of the United Nations
itself.
I find the hidden connections
to Masons and Egypt
most provocative.
Contemplating the United
Nations got me thinking
about national symbols.
Consider the UN flag as a symbol
of nations coming together
in peace.
As I already mentioned, the
map is divided into 33 sectors.
It seems appropriate
that the Earth
is flanked by two olive
branches, symbolizing peace.
Each of these branches
contains 13 leaves.
The UN flag is cyan
in color and was
created after the UN
was chartered in 1945.
In 1947, the UN decided
to partition Palestine
into a Jewish state, an Arab
state, and a UN-administered
Jerusalem.
This decision led
to a series of wars
and ultimately Israel's
independence in 1948.
The coat of arms of Israel
is also cyan in color.
It seems appropriate
that the menorah
is featured because it's
been a symbol of Judaism
for almost 3,000 years.
The menorah is flanked
by two 13-leafed olive
branches, symbolizing
peace, another parallel
with the UN flag.
There are many countries
whose flags and coats of arms
feature olive branches
symbolizing peace.
However, only the UN emblem and
the coats of arms of Israel,
the United States, and
the US Virgin Islands
feature olive branches
having exactly 13 leaves.
The US Virgin
Islands coat of arms
is a modified version
of the Great Seal
of the United States.
The flag of the United
States of America
also features significant
numerical symbolism.
There are 13 red
and white stripes.
50 stars are arranged
in nine rows,
alternating between rows
of six and five stars.
We'll learn the significance of
the nine rows in San Francisco
and the alternating rows of
six and five stars in Egypt.